In this tutorial, we'll take a quick look at how the different damage types can be used.
Go to our dev folder. We create a new class. In the search, we find the damage type.
Let's inherit from this class, let's call the first damage type: STUFireDamageType.
And create the second damage type.
Let's call it STUIceDamageType.
So, we have created two new classes: one of them will be responsible for fire damage, the other for ice damage.
Go to dev damage actor. Let's create a property in which we will
pass the damage class to which we want to damage our actor. We use the TSubclassOf template
that helps to pass the UClass in a safe way, let's call property - DamageType.
And in the .cpp file of the DevDamageActor class, in the ApplyRadialDamage function, change the
parameter that is responsible for the damage type from nullptr to DamageType.
The logic of the reaction to the damage type will be in the health component.
First of all, let's include header files with our damage types.
Let's go to the OnTakeAnyDamage function. In this function, information about the character's damage comes to us.
First, we check the damage type for validity, as we have seen, you can pass a null pointer.
We can get information about what type of damage came to us in several ways.
We can cast in turn, that is, cast the DamageType pointer to one of the types of interest to us,
that is, either fire damage or ice damage, and if the cast was successful, then work with the cast type.
For example, we could add different parameters for ice or fire to our damage type.
We'll do it a little differently: we'll use the UObject function called IsA.
This function is template, it takes an object type as a template parameter and returns true
if this object is of this type. Therefore, first we check if the given damage type belongs
to fire damage type and if it does, then let's print some message.
We copy the macro with the output of the message and replace the text with "so hoooooot" - let there be an exclamation that our character is hot.
And in the second branch of the conditional statement if we check the given damage type: whether it is ice damage type.
By analogy, we call the IsA function with the STUIceDamageType type.
We also display a text message.
With the text: "so cooooold". Our character is cold.
We have finished the code part. Let's go to editor.
Open the first damage actor, which we had with a red sphere and we see the property
damage type appeared. We can select the damage we are interested in. Let's put fire.
And to the second damage actor, which is blue, set the damage type - ice. Open the log and start the game.
We run into the blue sphere and get the message "so cooold", we run into the red sphere - we get "so hooot".
So, we have implemented with you the logic of reaction to various types of damage, in the most simplified form.
Also, if we remove the damage type in the damage actor - that is, it will be nullptr,
nothing will break with you - the message will simply not be displayed.